This final project was the hardest by far. Dealing with code I didn’t understand was the first challenge, followed by figuring out how to adapt my previously written image effects into the new format. Once I figured out the basic order of operations, where I had to add code and such, the majority of effects were easily pumped out. I had a few issues with the flip effects and blur, but the two that took me much much longer were pixelate and rotate 90 degrees. I eventually found some quick fixes for pixelate, some variables were not as they should have been, and after a few hours of messing with the for loops and changing indexes I changed the loops to the size of the vector I was dealing with instead of the height and width of the document and that did the trick. The most time consuming part of this was figuring out which parts of my code were breaking, as sometimes previous issues initially worked and messed up something later on, so simply looking for where the subscript error occurred didn’t really help. Rotate 90 degrees was a beast of its own, I refactored almost every step at least twice just to see if it would fix the subscript error, which most often ended up pointing me to another issue I hadn’t noticed that was adding to the code’s problems. I hadn’t realized how confusing my variables for the image manipulation rotate 90 degrees case had gotten until I went to try to refer to the working code and translate it to the class system. I’m so glad I finished these effects, I almost gave up along the way but after a few more hours I finally made progress and it felt so good! Something that would have made this milestone way easier would have been using the pixel class initially instead of dealing with the different color values separately. I would have been able to essentially copy what I had written before instead of refactoring the code to deal with these new values. Although it was frustrating I really enjoyed thinking of different reasons my code wasn’t working as expected. Just from the surface I didn’t see anything wrong but as I thought about every aspect of my code I found new holes or variables that could have unintended effects. Overall I’m proud of what I accomplished and glad I will have time to work on more passion projects in the future!